---
date: '2026-01-30T16:33:46+00:00'
draft: false
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/dg7khxdal/image/upload/v1769802126/evofutura/uploads/2026/01/protect-copyrighted-work-used-by-generative-ai-sa.jpg
image_credit: 'Source: pubaffairsbruxelles.eu'
source_name: pubaffairsbruxelles.eu
source_url: https://www.pubaffairsbruxelles.eu/eu-institution-news/protect-copyrighted-work-used-by-generative-ai-say-legal-affairs-meps/
title: Protect copyrighted work used by generative AI, say Legal Affairs MEPs - PubAffairs
  Bruxelles
---

Access to high quality data to train generative AI in the EU should go hand in hand with fair remuneration for the creative sector.

On Wednesday, Legal Affairs Committee MEPs adopted a series of proposals to ensure full transparency and fair remuneration of rightsholders for the use of copyrighted work by generative artificial intelligence (genAI), by 17 votes in favour, 3 against, and with 2 abstentions.

Remuneration for use of protected work

MEPs want EU copyright law to apply to all generative AI systems available on the EU market, regardless where the training takes place. Since genAI relies on and reproduces protected content, MEPs want full transparency about its use, including a list of each copyrighted work used and detailed records of crawling activities by AI providers and deployers. Failure to comply with transparency requirements could be tantamount to infringement of copyright, for which AI providers could bear legal consequences.

MEPs also demand fair remuneration for the use of copyrighted content by AI to ensure that the EU's creative and cultural sector can thrive in the AI age. They call on the Commission to examine whether such remuneration could also apply to past use, while rejecting the idea of a global licence allowing providers to train their genAI systems in exchange for a flat-rate payment.

Protecting the news media sector and individual rights

In the report, MEPs call on the Commission and member states to protect media pluralism, which is threatened by AI systems aggregating the news in a selective manner, diverting their traffic and revenues. They believe that the news media sector must have full control over the use of its content for training AI systems, including the possibility to refuse such use. MEPs also urge the Commission to ensure adequate remuneration for this use.

MEPs believe that content fully generated by AI should not be protected by copyright. They call for measures to protect individuals against the dissemination...

[Read the original article](https://www.pubaffairsbruxelles.eu/eu-institution-news/protect-copyrighted-work-used-by-generative-ai-say-legal-affairs-meps/)